In this demo, we're going to work on the exercise for schema on Read,
mainly actually loading Logs.
We have here a log file from NASA,
it's pretty old but I mean the format of
the log is actually didn't change a lot over time.
We go for a quick inspection and we find that while it's one value,
it's a string, makes sense,
it's just a line and you couldn't break it on anything.
How much that's looks like,
what one million rows?
One point million rows?
Okay, fine. We show how it looks like.
It seems that show is not going to be very helpful.
So, what do we do we say, (s, truncate=False).
We see a little bit here but still it looks a little bit ugly.
Anyhow Pandas comes to the rescue here and we say we want to do Pandas but we
want to control the column width to be like 200 characters and we print again.
Naturally, one can say the dfLog.toPandas
and.head5 but that means we're going to load all the file in Pandas then show it.
When I do the dfLog.limit first,
I'm getting only five rows from the data frame and loading
them to Pandas so we consume less memory and it's much faster.
Anyhow, when we look here,
you will see that these actually look alike but upon closer inspection,
we might say, why don't we just split this on the space?
Well, here there are spaces so things might not be very nice.
So, we have this brackets,
square brackets and we have those codes.
So, we are going to get this, lets try.
So, we go initially and we use the split function from the functions and we make
a column called tokenized and we think that
the dfLog and we put into the dfArrays data frame.
So, it looks like this.
Actually, if you work with it,
you will soon realize that this is going to be a not very nice to work with.
Actually, the number of columns,
if you start counting the number of items per column,
you will find that this is not very regular nodes.
The point I'm trying to make here is that not because it's Schema on Read that you would
load the file and you will find that
comma separated or JSON and everything is hunky-dory,
you will need sometimes to work a little bit more.